Cha-chung!
-Ay!
My lord, Teca is under attack.
They have come for Maya.
-Hmm! But they will find only…
-…our fury.
-Oh! Yes, they will.
Seven will be difficult, mi amor.
And you are pregnant.
It's never stopped me before.
I will take the lead, husband.
As you wish, my queen.
For Maya!
-That not good.
-Oh no! Teca!
-My parents!
-Andale, Chiapa!
They came here looking for me.
-Chiapa, go find mamá y papá.
-I will stop this golem.
Hey! Over here!
You looking for me?
You've got me!
Ha!
-Boom shakalak-- Whoa!
Thanks for helping.
Again, I'm so sorry I lied to you.
-Just because we're mad at you…
-Doesn't mean we're gonna abandon you.
You drop this.
Thank you.
I'm so relieved you forgive me.
-I-- I'm not off the hook, am I?
-Not even close, princesa.
I still expect to meet my mother.
You did?
Come on. Chiapa found my parents.
-Mama!
-Maya!
Where's Papa?
Hola, mija.
Papa!
I can't lift this.
If only we had gotten here sooner.
Mija, we have to get this monster off him.
Okay, we need some ropes,
some wood, and at least four
-to seventeen men--
-Or Picchu could do that.
I'm just going to close my eyes for a bit.
It's all right, gordo.
Just rest.
Mama, you're-- you're expecting?
I don't know why they call it expecting.
It's never when you expect it.
Ay, Mama.
No time to talk.
-Let's get your father to the healers.
-Ay! Oh. We showed them golems.
We showed them.
The healers have given
your father medicine.
Blue corn tortillas! Blue corn tortillas!
Very strong medicine.
Blue corn tortillas!
So… that's my papa.
-Husband, focus.
You do'd it!
These must be
the warriors of the prophecy.
Wait. They look so young.
Like bebés gigantes.
Mama, Papa, this is Rico,
the greatest Rooster Wizard
from Luna Island.
He's dazzled me with his magic
and humbled me with his bravery.
I'm forever in his debt.
Nice to meet you,
-Your Majestic Majesty.
-Excuse me if I don't get up.
I can't feel my legs.
-This is Chimi, the deadly Skull Archer
from the Jungle Lands.
She's the most skilled fighter
I've ever seen,
and has the kindest heart
in all three kingdoms.
-Mm-hmm.
Are you the ghost of a ghost?
Maybe someday if I'm lucky.
Ooh!
Ay, ay, ay!
And this is Picchu, the brave Puma Warrior
from the Golden Mountains.
I'm proud to fight beside him,
-and I'm in awe of his strength and honor.
Picchu glad meet you.
You're a big boy, aren't you?
Someone's been eating
his blue corn tortillas.
-Ay, gordo.
Mama, the four of us
were a mighty team, but now--
Oh, for the gods' sake. What now?
I'll get my-- my armor.
No, you stay with Papa. He needs you.
-Chiapa, guard them with your life.
We will… handle this.
Can't we space these fights out more? Huh?
Why has fighting become normal, anyway?
Look, you know how many fights I got in
before I met you? Huh, Maya? Zero.
This seem like
normal amount of fights to Picchu.
Fine. Even Picchu worry. You happy now?
-Hey! You're-- You're not welcome here.
I am Chivo, god of dark magic.
We are Bone and Skull,
goddesses of thievery!
-I am Vucub, god of jungle animals!
And I am Xtabay…
…goddess of illusions.
We are here for the half-breed.
Hand her over and just walk away.
This will bring an end to the horror.
Walk away.
They all have golden talismans.
-Whoa!
-Quiet!
These puny humans are no match for gods.
-Hi, girl who will get…
-…everyone killed.
I got these two.
-Split up and get the others.
-How-- How do we know who to face?
-You! The sewer rat apprentice.
-Ah! I hate goats!
-Ah!
Excuse me, Chimi.
May I have a word with you?
Chimi!
-Huh?
It's just you and me, handsome.
Oh.
We're taking you to Lord Mictlan.
But maybe we steal your treasure
before we steal you.
What a dump.
There's got to be something
worth stealing around here.
I don't know, sister.
-Everything looks lame.
-Colibrí! G-Get-- Get in the cage.
Huh. You really
have nothing worth stealing.
-Hmm… Or do you?
The Nefarious Bandit Queen's earrings!
How does it look?
Do I have the right bone structure?
My brother gave that to me.
Ay!
Check it out, the Golden Pearl!
-Hey! Put that back.
Join us, Maya!
Together, we can overthrow Lord Mictlan.
What?
-Nobody wants you around here anyway.
Your mama isn't even your real mama.
You shut your mouth!
-Ooh! I guess that one hurt, huh?
-Colibrí!
-Give those back!
-Poor little princesa,
stuck between two worlds.
-And she doesn't belong to either.
Face it, Maya, you're just a product
of your papa's biggest indiscreción.
-Yeah, I said it.
-I am a friend to all animals.
No, you are a traitor.
And I must end you.
-You let your animal family die!
After they raised you as their own.
-Now you pay for your betrayal.
Wait!
Huh.
I don't wanna hurt them if I fall.
None of this is their fault.
I'm ready when you are.
How could you side with humans now,
after they shunned you, Chimi?
I am learning they're not all bad.
You trusted the half-breed girl,
and she lied to you.
-But--
-Have you forgotten?
Humans murdered your animal family.
Why would they not betray you now?
I ask you, Chimi,
-have you forgotten your real family?
Monkey, I'm sorry!
I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
-Who this?
I am Xtabay.
-Huh?
-Or…
…maybe I'm Maya.
Maybe I'm this idiot.
Or maybe I'm the girl you like.
Whoever I am, I am your worst nightmare.
Huh?
Picchu, we are so proud of you.
Son good warrior. Best all time.
-Picchu proud be your son.
This not real.
-No!
-Huh?
Make stop. Make stop.
Picchu no can watch.
You let this happen, Picchu.
You.
If it weren't for you showing mercy…
Your family
would still be alive.
No!
-If it weren't for you…
-…your brothers would be alive.
You are the worst thing to happen
to Teca and your familia.
-We can defeat Lord Mictlan.
-Huh?
It'll be just the three of us,
ruling the underworld.
Do it for your family.
They're better off without you anyway.
Plus, Zatz will be there.
-So, what do you say? Join us, hermanita.
-No.
-I am the Eagle Warrior of the prophecy.
-I am not one of you.
Well, we tried.
Take the pearl and the earring, right?
Yeah, but leave the stupid bird.
That thing's worthless.
Time to knock this chick out
and stuff her in a sack, right?
-Go ahead. Make your move.
-You stupid little brat.
One human can't stand against the gods.
-You're right.
-Come on, Colibrí. Let's get the others.
-I'm sorry!
-I'm sorry.
Yes, if it weren't for me,
they'd still be alive.
And so would my mother.
So you agree you deserve to die,
as do all humans.
No. I now have met humans
who have… shown kindness to me.
They've accepted me as their own.
And I have accepted them.
Stop!
Why would you do this?
I don't want us to hurt each other,
-but I will gladly die defending my pack.
-Chimi!
-Maya!
-Are you all right?
Do you need help?
Hmm.
-Ooh.
-This is my friend Colibrí.
Come on. We have to help Rico and Picchu.
Hmm.
Huh?
Spare me, and I swear
you will never see me again.
-No.
Do it. What are you waiting for?
This is it,
-the moment you made your great mistake.
-Do it, Picchu!
-Mercy is never mistake.
-Then you will die like your family.
Let me show you how it's done.
You fight Picchu, you fight us all!
-Huh?
Stay away from him, you witch.
-Ah!
Estefan!
Not only did you kill the Gran Brujo,
you broke his golden talisman.
You are diabolical.
Listen here, mocoso.
Why don't you use your staff
like a civilized wizard?
-Yes. Yes.
Estefan! You all right?
W-- W-- W-Wait a second.
Why did you do this for me?
Well, how would it look if I,
Chivo, the god of dark magic,
defeated a pathetic worm
with a broken staff?
Huh?
Now let me show you
what real Peasant Magic looks like, fool.
Now let's see
if you're really okay. Terebro!
Oh no.
You almost g-g-g-g-g-got me.
Let me know when you're done playing
and can do some actual magic.
Oh yeah? Try this.
-Fulminis!
Strangulatus!
Don't you know that the others can see you
for the failure you really are?
They're not really your friends.
They got stuck with you,
just like the Gran Bru-hoo-hoo-hoo-jo.
The only remarkable thing you've ever done
was kill the one person
who cared about you.
And now you will get your friends killed.
-No.
-Say it.
-Say "I am worthless."
Admit it, and I will let you live.
Admit it!
I am worthless.
I-- I'm sorry, Gran Brujo!
I don't need to defeat you.
You defeated yourself.
Time to die.
-Get away from him!
-Aya!
Taste my ax!
-You fight Rico…
-You fight us all.
-He's gone. Rico?
-Estefan, you fixed him, Rico.
-Estefan was broken?
Rico, are you okay?
Don't worry about me. I-- I-- I got it.
I'm-- I'm-- I'm fine. I'm fine.
Yeah, Es-- Estefan is like new.
Listen to me.
Our weapons,
they can hurt the gods.
-Hmm.
Hmm. That's right.
Chivo said they're golden talismans.
-They're made from the blood of gods.
Gods bleed gold?
-Picchu like see that.
-Hardcore.
But why does mine not glow?
Hmm. Gran Brujo taught us
that gold talismans
don't respond to thoughts.
-They respond to feelings!
Emotions like love and anger and--
Axes, be magic now.
Anger work good.
-Guys, Chivo fixed Estefan.
-Why would he do that?
Chivo didn't fix… Esss-stefan
because he was being fair.
He fixed you because
he didn't want me using Peasant Magic.
He's afraid of it!
-Okay, we got this.
They here.
Ax, kill goat god!
You'll pay for that, barbarian.
Plenty more where that come from, fool.
Please, golden totem, I need this.
For my friends.
-It worked!
Magic arrows!
Oh yeah! It's on.
You amaze me, Chimi.
-Team stay together this time. Okay?
Let's finish what we started.
-Hey, goat face!
-We will fight on our terms!
Selfish Princess Maya
and the three outcasts.
You have all brought harm
to the ones you love.
Fitting that you will all fail together.
Dragón mágico, fire away.
Chivo malvado, time to pay!
-We are the prophecy!
Together, we stronger.
Dang right.
-Hmm?
-Cover me, Chimi.
Die, skele-twins!
-Skele-twins?
-You are no match, peasant!
-You are no match for a god!
One for you.
-And three for you!
Gracias, Chimi!
-Huh?
Who wants some? Huh?
Fight me, bird-faced god.
-You are truly merciful, barbarian.
Hmm. Parents raised Picchu right.
Okay, who wants some more?
I got you, Maya.
-Ooh!
-Stop moving.
-My bracelet! Mine!
Girl! I said give it to me!
-Ow!
-That's my bracelet!
Chimi, can I use the string
from your magic bow?
-Let me see if I can get it off. Whoa!
-Perfect! How did you do that?
I have no idea.
-Steal this!
Help me, Skull!
That's it! I don't care
what Lord Mictlan ordered.
We're gonna kill you
and become all-powerful ourselves.
Eagle Claw!
-Adios, princesita.
Colibrí, get in her head!
Get it out of me!
Ah!
-You… How did you--
-A human can't kill a god.
This is why
Lord Mictlan fears her.
I will avenge you, sister.
This I swear!
Eh… But not today. Bye.
Huh.
What?
-What did I just do? I killed a god.
-Yeah, don't feel bad. It was you or her.
I mean, besides, she was already dead.
She was a skeleton.
Gracias, Colibrí.
Thank you for your gifts, brothers.
From the bottom of my heart,
thank you three for fighting by my side.
And I should have never lied to you.
I'll understand
if you never forgive me. What?
-Yes, you lied to us.
But none of us are perfect.
-Hmm. Chimi pretty close.
-Shut your mouth.
And if we can't forgive you,
how can we ever forgive our-- ourselves?
-Uh… Fist hug?
-Not a chance.
You should have seen us, Papa.
We were unstoppable.
And I can actually kill the gods.
It's why Mictlan is afraid of me.
Who's Papa's little god-killer?!
He's still getting
a lot of medicinal herbs.
So that old club of mine
is made out of gods' blood?
Man, that's-- that's-- Whoa, crazy, man.
Seems like it would be
a little, eh, squishier.
So, uh… Yeah, yeah, yeah, I--
I learned something today too. Mm-hmm.
Very interesting.
Uh, it turns out my magic is so powerful,
the god of dark magic himself
is afraid of moi.
That's great, Rico.
Picchu learn
mercy not something you give.
Hmm.
Mercy something you are.
Aww.
-That's so noble, Picchu.
Hmm?
Tomorrow, we ride for glory!
Mama, Papa can't go with us
to destroy the Divine Gate.
And neither can you.
You must protect Papa and the baby.
I…
I know, mija.
The quest to destroy the Divine Gate
will just be me
and the warriors of the prophecy.
Chiapa will guide us. We got this.
Mija, Lord Mictlan
is not like the other gods.
What happened to your father and brothers,
it was worse than you can imagine.
Just destroy the Divine Gate
and come home safe to me.
I can't bear to lose anyone else.
You promise?
I promise, Mama.
-My mother is a monstruo.
-The Divine Gate!
The door between our realm
and the underworld.
Never give up.
-Fight till the end.
Maybe live for cause.
Maybe die for cause.